docs: Add Skills documentation (#57095)
zed-industries/zed: docs/src/ai/skills.md

---
title: Agent Skills - Zed
description: Extend Zed's AI agent with reusable, on-demand skill files for specialized tasks.
---

# Skills {#skills}

Skills are reusable instruction packages that give the agent specialized knowledge for specific tasks: test-driven development workflows, document processing, database integrations, or your team's internal coding standards.

A skill is a folder containing a `SKILL.md` file with metadata and instructions. The agent sees a catalog of all installed skills and can load one on demand, or you can invoke any skill directly from the message editor with a slash command.

## Finding Skills {#finding-skills}

[skills.sh](https://skills.sh) is a community registry of open-source skills. You'll find skills for popular frameworks, tools, workflows, and more:

> - [`find-skills`](https://skills.sh/vercel-labs/skills/find-skills): discover and install skills from the open ecosystem

Author: Popular skills on skills.sh, can be replaced by others that we consider more relevant

Reviewer: I think so!

- [`find-skills`](https://skills.sh/vercel-labs/skills/find-skills): discover and install skills from the open ecosystem
- [`frontend-design`](https://skills.sh/anthropics/skills/frontend-design): production-grade frontend interfaces with design polish
- [`vercel-react-best-practices`](https://skills.sh/vercel-labs/agent-skills/vercel-react-best-practices): React and Next.js performance patterns across 8 categories
- [`web-design-guidelines`](https://skills.sh/vercel-labs/agent-skills/web-design-guidelines): audit UI code for design, accessibility, and UX compliance
- [`pdf`](https://skills.sh/anthropics/skills/pdf): PDF text extraction, merging, splitting, form filling, and OCR

## Installing Skills {#installing-skills}

Skills are folders on disk. To install a skill, copy or clone its folder into your global or project-local skills folder.

For example, to install the `frontend-design` skill from GitHub globally:

```sh
cd ~/.agents/skills
git clone --filter=blob:none --sparse https://github.com/anthropics/skills
cd skills
git sparse-checkout set frontend-design
```

> For a project-local install, do the same inside your project's `.agents/skills/` folder.

Reviewer: We should also mention the built-in `/create-skill` skill, which works for the Zed agent. Zed can pick it up automatically but it's also possible to manually invoke it; it makes Zed knowledgable about everything needed to create a skill (where to put it, how to format it, the scope, etc.)

Reviewer: Edit: Just seeing that you've included content about it already down below! Maybe we should link them up somehow, like, "Installing" and "Creating" a skill feel like similar topics

Author: Unified both sections under "Adding skills"

## Using Skills {#using-skills}

There are two ways to load a skill manually:

- **Slash command**: type `/` in the message editor and select a skill by name
- **@-mention**: type `@skill` in the message editor and select a skill from the completion menu

> Both inject the skill's instructions as context. The loaded skill appears as a collapsible crease in the thread. Click it to open the skill file.

Reviewer: Maybe we should put this below, now that I'm reading what comes after this. Like, prioritizing the fact that models can auto-invoke skills and then "you can also _manually_ invoke them"

Author: Done!

> ### Model invocation {#model-invocation}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Model Invocation {#model-invocation}
```

Little nit; title case

> By default, the agent can also load skills autonomously. It sees a catalog of every installed skill (name and description) in its system prompt, and calls the `skill` tool when a task matches a skill's description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the agent loads skills autonomously. It sees a catalog of every installed skill (name and description) in its system prompt, and calls the `skill` tool when a task matches a skill's description.
```

This is useful for workflows you don't want the agent triggering automatically, like deploy or release procedures.

```yaml
---
name: deploy
description: Deploy the current branch to production.
disable-model-invocation: true
---
```

## Creating a Skill {#creating-a-skill}

Zed includes a built-in `create-skill` skill that guides the agent through creating a new skill. Invoke it with `/create-skill`, or the agent will pick it up automatically when you ask it to help create a skill.

### Folder structure {#folder-structure}

A skill is a named folder containing a `SKILL.md` file:

```
my-skill/
├── SKILL.md          # Required: metadata and instructions
├── scripts/          # Optional: scripts the agent can run
├── references/       # Optional: additional documentation
└── assets/           # Optional: templates and static files
```

The folder name must match the `name` field in `SKILL.md`.

### SKILL.md format {#skill-md-format}

`SKILL.md` starts with YAML frontmatter, followed by Markdown instructions.

**Minimal example:**

```markdown
---
name: my-skill
description: What this skill does and when to use it.
---

> ## Instructions

Author: Section added by the agent, is it accurate?

Reviewer: I don't think we support some of the front-matter fields it added below yet... I believe we only support `disable-model-invocation` right now...

Author: Updating to only include `name`, `description` and `disable-model-invocation` for now

| Global        | `~/.agents/skills/`          | Every project            |
| Project-local | `<worktree>/.agents/skills/` | Only the current project |

Each skill is a direct child of the skills root. Nesting skills inside subfolders is not supported.

### Project-local skills and trust {#project-local-trust}

Project-local skills only load from [trusted worktrees](../worktree-trust.md). Skills from a freshly cloned or untrusted project are excluded from the catalog and slash commands until you grant trust.

This prevents a malicious project from injecting instructions into your agent's system prompt before you've reviewed what the project ships.

### Override behavior {#override-behavior}

If a global and a project-local skill share the same name, the project-local skill takes precedence. This lets a project customize or replace a global skill for its own context.

### Editing skill files {#editing-skill-files}

The agent cannot edit `SKILL.md` files or their bundled resources without your explicit authorization, even in a trusted project. This prevents a compromised conversation from modifying the skills that govern future conversations.

> ## Limitations {#limitations}

Author: Section added by the agent, is it accurate?
